# Lab: S3

Help for the [VSCode editor](https://github.com/kodekloudhub/community-faq/blob/main/docs/vscode-tips.md).

1.  Information only.

1.  <details>
    <summary>Let's first inspect the configuration files in the directory called MCU.<br/>What is the AWS region configured for use in the provider block? (Assuming we do not pass in additional variables during command execution)</summary>

    1. Navigate to the directory `terraform-projects/S3-Buckets/MCU/` in the Explorer pane
    1. We are asked about the provider and variables, so inspect all of `providers.tf`, `variables.tf` and `terraform.tfvars`. Assuming no `TF_VAR_` environment variable is set, and terraform is run without either of `-var` or `-var-file`, then you should be able to determine the region.
    1.  <details>
        <summary>Reveal</summary>

        > `us-east-1`

        </detail>

    </details>

1.  <details>
    <summary>There is a resource block configured in the <b>main.tf</b> file in this configuration directory. What is the resource name that will be provisioned when we run terraform apply?</summary>

    Remember that the resource name is a property of the resource _statement_, not an argument within the block (i.e. _not_ what lies between `{` and `}`)

    <details>
    <summary>Reveal</summary>

    > `marvel-cinematic-universe`

    </details>

1.  <details>
    <summary>What is the current state of this configuration directory?</summary>

    We can solve this with the following flow:

    1.  Is there a `terraform.tfstate` file?
        *   Yes - an `apply` has been run at least once, so it is certainly initialized.
            *   Does the state file contain resources?
                *   Yes - `Resources Provisioned`
                *   No - `Resources not provisioned`
        *   No - Move on
    1.  Is there a `.terraform` directory, and does it contain plugin directories
        *   Yes - `Directory Initialized`
        *   No - `Directory not initialized`


    </details>

1.  <details>
    <summary>What is the name of the s3 bucket that has been created by this configuration?</summary>

    Examine `main.tf` and look at the resource arguments.

    </details>

1.  <details>
    <summary>What is the DNS domain name that is created for this bucket?</summary>

    Run `terraform show` inside this configuration directory and inspect the attribute called `bucket_domain_name`.

    ```bash
    cd /root/terraform-projects/S3-Buckets/MCU
    terraform show
    ```

    </details>

1.  Information only

1.  <details>
    <summary>The <b>main.tf</b> file is empty. Use it to create a new S3 bucket...</summary>

    Specifications

    * resource name: `dc_bucket`
    * bucket name: `dc_is_better_than_marvel`

    1.  Navigate to the `DC` folder in the Explorer pane and open `main.tf`
    1.  Create the resource block. Refer to the [documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_bucket) if needed.

        <details>
        <summary>Reveal</summary>

        ```
        resource "aws_s3_bucket" "dc_bucket" {
            bucket = "dc_is_better_than_marvel"
        }
        ```

        </details>

    1.  Try to create the bucket

        ```bash
        cd /root/terraform-projects/S3-Buckets/DC
        terraform init
        terraform plan
        terraform apply
        ```

    It's OK of you get an error - move on to the next question.

    </details>

1.  <details>
    <summary>Why did the terraform apply command fail?</summary>

    Refer to the error message from the previous `terraform apply`

    </details>

1.  Information only

1.  <details>
    <summary>Let's fix that now and change the bucket name so that it uses dashes (-) instead of underscore(_).</summary>

    1. Replace all `_` with `-` in the bucket name so it now reads `dc-is-better-than-marvel`
    1. Deploy

        ```bash
        cd /root/terraform-projects/S3-Buckets/DC
        terraform init
        terraform plan
        terraform apply
        ```

    </details>

1.  Navigate to the `pixar` directory in Explorer pane.

1.  Information only

1.  <details>
    <summary>Upload <b>woody.jpg</b> to the existing bucket <b>pixar-studios-2020</b></summary>

    Specifications

    * Bucket: `pixar-studios-2020`
    * Key: `woody.jpg`
    * Source: `/root/woody.jpg`

    For this we need to use the [aws_s3_object](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_object) resource which represents the state of a file in an S3 bucket. Note that the solution tab on the lab page suggests to use the `aws_s3_bucket_object` resource, however this is deprecated in favour of `aws_s3_object`.

    1. Navigate to the `Pixar` folder in Explorer pane
    1. Create the resource per the specfication. We haven't been given a ame for the resource in the question, so let's just call it `upload`

        <details>
        <summary>Reveal</summary>

        ```
        resource "aws_s3_object" "upload" {
            bucket = "pixar-studios-2020"
            key = "woody.jpg"
            source = "/root/woody.jpg"
        }
        ```

        </details>

    1. Deploy

        ```bash
        cd /root/terraform-projects/S3-Buckets/Pixar
        terraform init
        terraform plan
        terraform apply
        ```
    </details>

